Improving dag.test() section (#1973)
astronomer/docs: learn/testing-airflow.md

## Debug interactively with dag.test()

> Airflow 2.5.0 introduced the `dag.test()` method which allows you to run all tasks in a DAG within a single serialized Python process without needing an Airflow Scheduler to be running. The `.test()` method allows for faster iteration when developing DAGs and use of IDE debugging tools.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Airflow 2.5.0 introduced the `dag.test()` method which allows you to run all tasks in a DAG within a single serialized Python process without needing an Airflow Scheduler to be running. The `.test()` method allows for faster iteration and use of IDE debugging tools when developing DAGs.
```

> The prerequisites to use `dag.test()` are that you are operating in an environment that has:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use `dag.test()`, your environment must have:
```

> - At least [Airflow 2.5.0 installed](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/start.html), you can verify the installation by running `airflow version`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- At least [Airflow 2.5.0](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/start.html). You can verify the installation by running `airflow version`.
```

> - All necessary provider packages installed (for example in a [virtualenv](https://virtualenv.pypa.io/en/latest/)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- All provider packages that your DAG uses.
```

> - An [Airflow metastore](airflow-database.md) available if your DAG uses elements of the metastore for example by using XCom. The Airflow metastore is created when Airflow is first run in an environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- An [Airflow metastore](airflow-database.md), if your DAG uses elements of the metastore like XCom. The Airflow metastore is created when Airflow is first run in an environment.

You may wish to install these requirements and test your DAGs in a [virtualenv](https://virtualenv.pypa.io/en/latest/) to avoid dependency conflicts in your local environment.
```

> To set up `dag.test()`, you only need to add few lines of code to the end of your DAG file. If you are using a traditional DAG context, call `.test()` on the object the context is assigned to. If you are using the `@dag` decorator assign the called dag function to an object (`dag_object` in the example code) and call the method on that object. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To set up `dag.test()`, you only need to add a few lines of code to the end of your DAG file. If you are using a traditional DAG context, call `.test()` on the object the context is assigned to. If you are using the `@dag` decorator, assign the called DAG function to an object (`dag_object` in the example code) and call the method on that object. 
```

## Debug interactively with dag.test()

> Airflow 2.5.0 introduced the `dag.test()` method which allows you to run all tasks in a DAG within a single serialized Python process without needing an Airflow Scheduler to be running. The `.test()` method allows for faster iteration and use of IDE debugging tools when developing DAGs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Airflow 2.5.0 introduced the `dag.test()` method which allows you to run all tasks in a DAG within a single serialized Python process without running the Airflow scheduler. The `.test()` method allows for faster iteration and use of IDE debugging tools when developing DAGs.
```

> To use `dag.test()`, your environment must have:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Prerequisites
```

> - At least [Airflow 2.5.0](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/start.html). You can verify the installation by running `airflow version`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Airflow 2.5.0](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/start.html) or later. You can check your version by running `airflow version`.
```

> - All provider packages that your DAG uses.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
Huh, I mean you'd have this anyways to run your DAG right? Any reason this prereq is specific to testing DAGs?

Author: If you are running standalone Airflow then yes the provider packages would be installed in your local environment, yes but if you are like me and usually an Astro CLI user you have no provider packages installed locally. This is why I added this prereq to test the DAG the providers need to be in the environment the DAG is tested in, I think usually people use a venv.

Reviewer 2: But if you're using the Astro CLI, wouldn't you have these in `requirements.txt`? When we say "your environment", I assume we mean the regular environment that these DAGs run in, in which case it would be implied that all dependencies are already in place

Reviewer 2: Could we clarify "Your testing environment" instead of just "your environment"? That would make more sense to me for why we would need to establish all of these things separate from our core Airflow

Author: Yes, 'testing environment' makes sense. :)

> - An [Airflow metastore](airflow-database.md), if your DAG uses elements of the metastore like XCom. The Airflow metastore is created when Airflow is first run in an environment and you can verify its existence by running `airflow db check`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- An initialized [Airflow metadata database](airflow-database.md), if your DAG uses elements of the metadata database like XCom. The Airflow metastore is created when Airflow is first run in an environment. You can check that it exists by running `airflow db check`.
```
How do you initialize it if it doesn't exist? We should add that here.

Author: Good point. By running `airflow db init` :)

> You may wish to install these requirements and test your DAGs in a [virtualenv](https://virtualenv.pypa.io/en/latest/) to avoid dependency conflicts in your local environment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You may wish to install these requirements and test your DAGs in a [virtualenv](https://virtualenv.pypa.io/en/latest/) to avoid dependency conflicts in your local environment.
```
I don't understand, the dependencies seem like things you would normally have for your base environment so why would there be conflicts?

Author: There could be conflicts with other tools a dev is using in their local environment separate from airflow or maybe someone is developing DAGs for different Airflow versions that are compatible with different provider versions and needs to keep the package soups separate. I don't have a good example but I know some people will have venvs for all of their projects and keep their main environment clean of anything they dont really need to have in there.

> To set up `dag.test()`, you only need to add a few lines of code to the end of your DAG file. If you are using a traditional DAG context, call `.test()` on the object the context is assigned to. If you are using the `@dag` decorator, assign the called DAG function to an object (`dag_object` in the example code) and call the method on that object. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Setup

To use `dag.test()`, you only need to add a few lines of code to the end of your DAG file. If you are using a traditional DAG context, call `.test()` on the object the context is assigned to. If you are using the `@dag` decorator, assign the called DAG function to an object (`dag_object` in the example code) and call the method on that object. 
```

## Debug interactively with dag.test()

> Airflow 2.5.0 introduced the `dag.test()` method which allows you to run all tasks in a DAG within a single serialized Python process without running the Airflow scheduler. The `.test()` method allows for faster iteration and use of IDE debugging tools when developing DAGs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Airflow 2.5.0 introduced the `dag.test()` method which allows you to run all tasks in a DAG within a single serialized Python process without running the Airflow scheduler. The `dag.test()` method allows for faster iteration and use of IDE debugging tools when developing DAGs.
```
Do we lose any meaning by being consistent with the function naming here?

Author: No, .test was just a shorthand, dag.test works well too. :)

This functionality replaces the deprecated DebugExecutor. Learn more in the [Airflow documentation](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/core-concepts/executor/debug.html).

### Prerequisites

> 
> - [Airflow 2.5.0](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/start.html) or later. You can check your version by running `airflow version`.
> - All provider packages that your DAG uses need to be installed in the environment in which you are using `dag.test()`.
> - An initialized [Airflow metadata database](airflow-database.md), if your DAG uses elements of the metadata database like XCom. The Airflow metadata database is created when Airflow is first run in an environment. You can check that it exists by running `airflow db check` and initialize a new database with `airflow db init`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

Ensure that your testing environment has:

- [Airflow 2.5.0](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/start.html) or later. You can check your version by running `airflow version`.
- All provider packages that your DAG uses.
- An initialized [Airflow metadata database](airflow-database.md), if your DAG uses elements of the metadata database like XCom. The Airflow metadata database is created when Airflow is first run in an environment. You can check that it exists with `airflow db check` and initialize a new database with `airflow db init`.
```

You may wish to install these requirements and test your DAGs in a [virtualenv](https://virtualenv.pypa.io/en/latest/) to avoid dependency conflicts in your local environment.

### Setup

> To use `dag.test()`, you only need to add a few lines of code to the end of your DAG file. If you are using a traditional DAG context, call `.test()` on the object the context is assigned to. If you are using the `@dag` decorator, assign the called DAG function to an object (`dag_object` in the example code) and call the method on that object. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To use `dag.test()`, you only need to add a few lines of code to the end of your DAG file. If you are using a traditional DAG context, call `dag.test()` after your DAG declaration. If you are using the `@dag` decorator, assign your DAG function to a new object and call the method on that object. 
```
Feel free to ignore this one, just trying to simplify the explanation a bit since the code is already very clean and explanatory.

    t1 = EmptyOperator(task_id="t1")

dag_object = my_dag()

if __name__ == "__main__":
    dag_object.test()
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

You can run the `.test()` method with popular debugging tools such as:

- [VSCode debugging](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/debugging)
- [PyCharm debugging](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/pycharm/debugging-your-first-python-application.html)
- Debugging from the command line by running `python <path-to-dag-file>` using tools like [The Python Debugger](https://docs.python.org/3/library/pdb.html) and the built-in [`breakpoint()`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#breakpoint) function.

This functionality replaces the deprecated DebugExecutor. Learn more in the [Airflow documentation](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/core-concepts/executor/debug.html).

:::note

> Users who use the Astro CLI exclusively and do not have the `airflow` package installed locally can still benefit from `dag.test()` debugging by running `astro dev start`, enter the scheduler container with `astro dev bash -s` and executing `python <path-to-dag-file>` from within the Docker container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users who use the Astro CLI exclusively and do not have the `airflow` package installed locally can still benefit from `dag.test()` debugging by running `astro dev start`, entering the scheduler container with `astro dev bash -s`, and executing `python <path-to-dag-file>` from within the Docker container.
```

:::

### Use variables and connections in dag.test()

The `dag.test()` method allows for passing of the following Airflow elements:

- `execution_date`: as a `pendulum.datetime` object.
- [Airflow connections](connections.md): configured in a `.yaml` file.
- Airflow variables: configured in a `.yaml` file.

> - Configuration to run a DAG with: passed as a dictionary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- DAG configuration: passed as a dictionary.
```

> This is useful to quickly test your DAG running for different dates with different connections and configurations. The code snippet below shows the syntax for passing parameters to `.test()`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is useful for quickly testing your DAG for different dates or with different connections and configurations. The code snippet below shows the syntax for passing parameters to `.test()`.
```

    t1 = EmptyOperator(task_id="t1")

dag_object = my_dag()

if __name__ == "__main__":
    dag_object.test()
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

> You can run the `.test()` method with popular debugging tools such as:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can run the `.test()` method with popular debugging tools such as:
```

> - [VSCode debugging](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/debugging)
> - [PyCharm debugging](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/pycharm/debugging-your-first-python-application.html)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/debugging).
- [PyCharm](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/pycharm/debugging-your-first-python-application.html).
```

> - Debugging from the command line by running `python <path-to-dag-file>` using tools like [The Python Debugger](https://docs.python.org/3/library/pdb.html) and the built-in [`breakpoint()`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#breakpoint) function.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Tools like [The Python Debugger](https://docs.python.org/3/library/pdb.html) and the built-in [`breakpoint()`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#breakpoint) function. These allow you to run `dag.test()` from the command line by running `python <path-to-dag-file>`.
```

This functionality replaces the deprecated DebugExecutor. Learn more in the [Airflow documentation](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/core-concepts/executor/debug.html).

> :::note

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Use `dag.test()` with the Astro CLI
```

Reviewer 2: Felt important and different enough to put in its own topic

> Users who use the Astro CLI exclusively and do not have the `airflow` package installed locally can still benefit from `dag.test()` debugging by running `astro dev start`, entering the scheduler container with `astro dev bash -s`, and executing `python <path-to-dag-file>` from within the Docker container.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you use the Astro CLI exclusively and do not have the `airflow` package installed locally, you can still debug using `dag.test()` by running `astro dev start`, entering the scheduler container with `astro dev bash -s`, and executing `python <path-to-dag-file>` from within the Docker container. Unlike using the base `airflow` package, this testing method requires starting up a complete Airflow environment. 
```

> 
> :::

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

### Use variables and connections in dag.test()

> The `dag.test()` method allows for passing of the following Airflow elements:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To debug your DAGs in a more realistic environment, you can pass the following Airflow environment configurations to `dag.test()`:
```

> - `execution_date`: as a `pendulum.datetime` object.
> - [Airflow connections](connections.md): configured in a `.yaml` file.
> - Airflow variables: configured in a `.yaml` file.
> - DAG configuration: passed as a dictionary.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `execution_date` passed as a `pendulum.datetime` object.
- [Airflow connections](connections.md) passed as a `.yaml` file.
- Airflow variables passed as a `.yaml` file.
- DAG configuration passed as a dictionary.
```

> This is useful for quickly testing your DAG for different dates or with different connections and configurations. The code snippet below shows the syntax for passing parameters to `.test()`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is useful for testing your DAG for different dates or with different connections and configurations. The following code snippet shows the syntax for passing various parameters to `.test()`:
```

```python
from pendulum import datetime 

if __name__ == "__main__":
    conn_path = "connections.yaml"
    variables_path = "variables.yaml"
    my_conf_var = 23

    dag_object.test(
        execution_date=datetime(2023, 1, 29),
        conn_file_path=conn_path,
        variable_file_path=variables_path,
        run_conf={"my_conf_var": my_conf_var},
    )
```

> The `connections.yaml` file should list connections with their properties as shown below:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `connections.yaml` file should list connections with their properties as shown in the following example:
```

```yaml
my_aws_conn:
  conn_type: amazon

>   login: <your AWS key>
>   password: <your AWS secret>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  login: <your-AWS-key>
  password: <your-AWS-secret>
```

- Tools like [The Python Debugger](https://docs.python.org/3/library/pdb.html) and the built-in [`breakpoint()`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#breakpoint) function. These allow you to run `dag.test()` from the command line by running `python <path-to-dag-file>`.

### Use `dag.test()` with the Astro CLI

If you use the Astro CLI exclusively and do not have the `airflow` package installed locally, you can still debug using `dag.test()` by running `astro dev start`, entering the scheduler container with `astro dev bash -s`, and executing `python <path-to-dag-file>` from within the Docker container. Unlike using the base `airflow` package, this testing method requires starting up a complete Airflow environment. 

### Use variables and connections in dag.test()

To debug your DAGs in a more realistic environment, you can pass the following Airflow environment configurations to `dag.test()`:

- `execution_date` passed as a `pendulum.datetime` object.
- [Airflow connections](connections.md) passed as a `.yaml` file.
- Airflow variables passed as a `.yaml` file.
- DAG configuration passed as a dictionary.

> This is useful for testing your DAG for different dates or with different connections and configurations. The following code snippet shows the syntax for passing various parameters to `.test()`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is useful for testing your DAG for different dates or with different connections and configurations. The following code snippet shows the syntax for passing various parameters to `dag.test()`:
```

```python
from pendulum import datetime 

if __name__ == "__main__":
    conn_path = "connections.yaml"
    variables_path = "variables.yaml"
    my_conf_var = 23

>     dag_object.test(

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    dag.test(
```
I know we use this in the example but should we keep it basic here so that it's easily searchable by users looking for `dag.test` examples? What's the likelyhood that this object would be named something else by devs?

Author: I agree with using dag.test here in the code snippet 👍 . 

I think in reality there are a lot of devs who will call the dag object `dag`. It is a bit of a pet peeve of mine when it is done with @dag decorator defined DAGs because `dag` is already the decorator function in those DAGs. Since the dag object assignment happens after the decorator is used it does not actually matter, I just don't like changing the meaning of a variable in a file from a decorator function to an instantiated object 😅 . I know, very nit-picky.
